---
layout: post
title: "What's new in Java 11 (LTS)?"
date: 2020-11-05
excerpt: "Java news"
tags: Java11
feature: /images/java-logo.jpg
comments: false
---

This post aims to resume java 11 news. Note that java 11 is a LTS version.

The oracle release note is available [here](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk-11-relnote.html)

# API updates 

## Strings

- String.isBlank()
- String.lines()
- String repeat(int)
- String.strip()
- String.stripLeading()
- String.stripTrailing()
- java.lang.CharSequence.compare()
- java.lang.StringBuffer.comapreTo()
- java.lang.StringBuilder.compareTo()

## Predicate

- Predicate.not()

## Nested classes

- Class.getNestHost()
- Class.getNestMembers()
- Class.isNestmateof(Class)

# DYNAMIC CLASS-FILE CONSTANTS

The value of the constant is debined in the execution, and not in the compialtion. 

>The value is defined only one time.

# Epsilon garbage collector

Epsilon GC handles memory allocation but **does not implement any actual memory reclamation mechanism**. Once the available Java heap is exhausted, the JVM will shut down.

# Unicode 10

Support the latest version of Unicode, mainly in the following classes:

- Character and String in the java.lang package,
- NumericShaper in the java.awt.font package, and
- Bidi, BreakIterator, and Normalizer in the java.text package.

# Launch Unique file

Before Java 11

```bash
        javac -d <memory> HelloWorld.java
        java -cp <memory> 
```

After Java 11

```bash
        java HelloWorld.java
```

# Http client

This HTTP Client API, in the `java.net.http` package was introduced in Java 9, updated in Java 10, now a standard feature in Java 11.

A Java 11 `HttpClient` to send a simple GET request.

```java

    HttpClient httpClient = HttpClient.newBuilder()
            .version(HttpClient.Version.HTTP_1_1)
            .connectTimeout(Duration.ofSeconds(10))
            .build();

    HttpRequest request = HttpRequest.newBuilder()
            .GET()
            .uri(URI.create("https://httpbin.org/get"))
            .setHeader("User-Agent", "Java 11 HttpClient Bot")
            .build();

    HttpResponse<String> response =
      httpClient.send(request, HttpResponse.BodyHandlers.ofString());

    HttpHeaders headers = response.headers();
    headers.map().forEach((k, v) -> System.out.println(k + ":" + v));

    System.out.println(response.statusCode());
    System.out.println(response.body());
```

# Removal

Java 9 deprecated the following Java EE and CORBA modules and now removed in Java 11. If you want to migrate to Java 11, make sure your project didn’t use any of the following packages or tools.

Removed packages:

- java.xml.ws (JAX-WS)
- java.xml.bind (JAXB)
- java.activation (JAF)
- java.xml.ws.annotation (Common Annotations)
- java.corba (CORBA)
- java.transaction (JTA)
- java.se.ee (Aggregator module for the six modules above)

Removed Tools:

- wsgen and wsimport (from jdk.xml.ws)
- schemagen and xjc (from jdk.xml.bind)
- idlj, orbd, servertool, and tnamesrv (from java.corba)

# Links

- [Invivoo Blog](https://blog.invivoo.com/les-9-nouveautes-de-java-11/)
- [Mkyong](https://mkyong.com/java/what-is-new-in-java-11/)
- [inference by baeldung](https://www.baeldung.com/java-10-local-variable-type-inference)
